
============
Introduction
============

Usergrid is a cloud-based data platform for managing application objects and
data for mobile and rich client applications.

Usergrid provides a core set of application objects for managing users and
powering interactions, and then couples that with a robust free-form data
storage system for storing, searching, and retrieving content and objects
collections of any type. Finally, we provide a simple and flexible way to log
data, providing convenient realtime event stream analysis and capturing and
tracking key metrics.

-----
Users
-----

Immediately have a rich user model, organizing users into groups, teams,
departments or whatever is appropriate. Build social graphs connecting users
together. Let users authenticate via Facebook, Twitter, or any oAuth-enabled
service and automatically sync user profile data.

---------------------
Messages & Activities
---------------------

Provide interaction and communications in the form of activity streams,
enabling activities such as status updates, check-ins, comments, or any other
form of user activity to be broadcast to fellow users. Use our Websocket API
to enable realtime messaging and notifications by immediately delivering
activities to connected users.

-----------
Collections
-----------

Store any type of content or objects in the form of JSON data, and be able to
query or fulltext search on any field immediately, letting you easily build
content-rich applications. Use our pre-built objects and content collections
to accelerate your development and share these with other users. Import,
export, and sync with third-party applications.

--------------
Data Analytics
--------------

Log all data events generated by the application, even in realtime, with the
ability to store, search, and analyze at any level of scale. Perform
time-based analysis of data, all the way from by-the-minute to by-the-month.
Easily power computation-intensive features such as up-to-the-minute
leaderboards, voting, and live audience reaction. Let your users see who's the
top ranking player at the moment, or vote for a contestant.

